Preface
=======

FutureGrid is a project led by Indiana University and funded by the
National Science Foundation (NSF) to develop a high-performance grid
test bed that will allow scientists to collaboratively develop and test
innovative approaches to parallel, grid, and cloud computing.
 FutureGrid will provide the infrastructure to researchers that allows
them to perform their own computational experiments using distributed
systems. The goal is to make it easier for scientists to conduct such
experiments in a transparent manner.

FutureGrid users will be able to deploy their own hardware and software
configurations on a public/private cloud, and run their experiments.
They will be able to save their configurations and execute their
experiments using the provided tools. The FutureGrid test bed is
composed of a high-speed network connecting distributed clusters of high
performance computers. FutureGrid will employ virtualization technology
that will allow the test bed to support a wide range of operating
systems.

The NSF awarded \$10.1 million to enable joint development of FutureGrid
through a partnership of Indiana University, Purdue University,
University of California - San Diego, University of Chicago/Argonne
National Labs, University of Florida, University of Southern California,
University of Texas, and the Center for Information Services and High
Performance Computing at Technische Universität Dresden. The principal
investigator is Dr. Geoffrey C. Fox, Director of the [Digital Science
Center](http://pti.iu.edu/dsc) at the IU [Pervasive Technology
Institute](http://pti.iu.edu/).

Citation
========

If you use FutureGrid, we ask you kindly to include the following
reference in your papers:

[Fox, G.](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/author/11), [G. von
Laszewski](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/author/1), [J.
Diaz](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/author/61), [K.
Keahey](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/author/3), [J.
Fortes](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/author/18), [R.
Figueiredo](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/author/43), [S.
Smallen](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/author/24), [W.
Smith](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/author/16), and [A.
Grimshaw](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/author/17), "[FutureGrid
- a reconfigurable testbed for Cloud, HPC and Grid
Computing](https://portal.futuregrid.org/references/futuregrid-recon-figurable-testbed-cloud-hpc-and-grid-computing)", Contemporary
High Performance Computing: From Petascale toward Exascale, April, 2013.
Editor J.
Vetter. Download: [vonLaszewski-fg-bookchapter.pdf](https://portal.futuregrid.org/biblio/view/2034)

Acknowledgement
===============

The FutureGrid project is funded by the National Science Foundation
(NSF) and is led by [Indiana
University](http://www.iub.edu/) with [University of
Chicago](http://www.uchicago.edu/index.shtml), [University of
Florida](http://www.ufl.edu/), [San Diego Supercomputing
Center](http://www.sdsc.edu/), [Texas Advanced Computing
Center](http://www.tacc.utexas.edu/), [University of
Virginia](http://www.virginia.edu/),[University of
Tennessee](http://www.utk.edu/), [University of Southern
California](http://www3.isi.edu/home), [Dresden](http://tu-dresden.de/), [Purdue
University](http://www.purdue.edu/), and [Grid
5000](https://www.grid5000.fr/mediawiki/index.php/Grid5000:Home) as
partner sites. This material is based upon work supported in part by the
National Science Foundation under Grant No. 0910812.

About this Manual
=================

This manual is the primary location of  information about FutureGrid
software and services. All FG team members update this manual regularly.

We would also like to **ask the community to help**.  If you would enjoy
contributing sections and chapters as part of your community activities,
please contact Gregor
at [<laszewski@gmail.com>](mailto:laszewski@gmail.com). We welcome
additional contributors and editors to this manual.

Enjoy using and expanding the FutureGrid User Manual!

Gregor von Laszewski
